
---
---
# MAGIC SPELLS
---
---
## DVNE (Divine)
DIVINE | RANK | DIST | SPAN | DESC
|-|-|-|-|-|
True Sight |1|extr|RUND|You can enhance your vision to be unnaturally sharp, andsee details at Extreme range as if you stood right next to the object in question. True Sight also lets you see in darkness, through smoke and fog, and automatically see through any kind of disguise or shapeshift. You must have a clear line of sight to whatever you want to look at.
True Path |2 |SELF |IMDT |This spell can guide you to the right path when you face a difficult decision. Once you have cast the spell, the GM must tell you which decision or choice she believes is the wisest.
Visions of the Past | 2|MEDM |STRC | You can see events that have transpired in the past at the location where you are, even if those events are no longer remembered by any living being. Power level 1 lets you see one day back in time, power level 2 one year into the past, and power level 3 lets you see hundreds of years back. Your visions are often fragmented and cryptic – the GM decides exactly what you can see.
Divination |3 |SHRT |STRC | You can see visions of the future. You ask the GM questions about yourself or someone else present. The GM answers as best she can. The answer must be brief, and is often ambiguous and cryptic. The answer can also come in the form of a sign of happiness, or a foreboding sign of ill fortune.
Intuition | 3|SELF |IMDT |You can ask a short “yes” or “no” question about anything in the world. The GM must answer “yes,” “no,” or “maybe.” They cannot lie. The GM can choose “maybe” even if they know the answer, but believes that the true answer may disrupt the game. Note that true or false is not an objective fact, but is defined by who is asking the question.
Purge Undead | 2|SHRT |IMDT |This spell inflicts damage equal to the Power Level on one undead target.
Resurrection |3 |ENGA | IMDT | You can channel forces of the Divine to resurrect a dead person – not as undead, but truly alive. The more time that has passed since the target died, the more difficult it is. Within the same shift requires power level 1, within a full day requires power level 2, and within a week requires power level 3. If over a week has passed, the body is too decomposed to be Resurrected. A person brought back to life loses one point of Empathy permanently, as having seen the world beyond the veil will change their outlook on life forever.
Serenity | 3|shrt |IMDT|You spread harmony and serenity around you with this spell, which helps you in social conflicts. The victim of the spell will do what you want, without a roll to Persuade them. The spell can only be used against living humanoids.
Raise the Dead |2 |SHRT |SHFT | The main task of Death Magic is awakening the dead. In its simplest form, this ritual is used to reanimate one dead humanoid or animal, which will become a rank 1 undead. For each power level beyond the first, you can reanimate one more undead, or increase the rank of all undead raised by the spell by one. A ritual with power level 2 can raise two undead of rank 1, power level 3 can raise two undead of rank 2, and so on. A rank 1 undead has little to no mental capacity, but will obey simple commands and can use weapons and simple tools. The undead has the same Strength it did in life, Agility is decreased by one (no lower than 1), and it has no Wits or Empathy. Skills based on Strength and Agility are retained. A rank 2 undead can be enhanced in one of the following ways: ✦ STRONGER: The Strength score increases by 1. This effect can be chosen several times for undead of higher ranks. ✦ SMARTER: The undead regains some of its lost mental capacity, in the form of both Wits and Empathy and skills associated with these attributes. All the scores are lowered by one (no lower than 1). The undead can answer questions about its life both before and after death, but it often has an unclear sense of time and can be very forgetful. It obeys its maker and can perform slightly more advanced tasks. ✦ DURABLE: The duration of the spell is doubled. This effect can be chosen several times for undead of higher levels.
Speak to the Dead | 2|SHRT |STRC |You can speak with the dead. You must be within Short range of where the victim died or lies buried. You must know the victim’s name. You can speak with the dead for a few minutes and ask a few simple questions. The GM decides what the dead can and will answer – the dead aren’t always cooperative. If the victim’s remains are reasonably intact you can speak directly with the corpse, otherwise you hear the dead as a disembodied host voice in your head. This spell cannot be used against undead.

## MIND

MIND | RANK | DIST | SPAN | DESC
|-|-|-|-|-|
Terror |3 |MEDM |IMDT | You can instill a horrible, unbearable fear in your victim, whose mind is flooded by images of their own aging and death. The victim suffers stress (damage to both Wits and Empathy) equal to the power level. This spell only works on living humanoids.
Bind Demon | 2| SHRT| SHFT| You can instill a horrible, unbearable fear in your victim, whose mind is flooded by images of their own aging and death. The victim suffers stress (damage to both Wits and Empathy) equal to the power level. This spell only works on living humanoids.
Entice | 1|MEDM |IMDT |This spell lures the victim, who must make an Insight roll with a negative modifier equal to the power level. If the roll fails, the victim must move to within Engaged range of the user, spending all their normal actions to do so. When the victim reaches the user, or if the user is moved, the effect is broken. No effect on monsters
Horrify |1|MEDM|IMDT| The symbol awakens a deep fear in the victim, who suffers stress (damage to Wits) equal to the power level. No effect on monsters.
Telepathy |3|SHRT|STRC|You can read the surface thoughts of another person for a few minutes. Digging deeper for memories is harder, and requires power level 2 or even more, depending on how fresh the memory is. You can also use this spell to send your own thoughts to another person. In that case, the range of the spell is Long if you know the target well. By sending thoughts of pain and suffering, you can inflict stress (damage to Wits or Empathy, if using attribute damage) equal to the power level. This spell has no effect on monsters.
Banish Demon |2|SHRT|IMDT| This spell inflicts damage equal to the power level on a demon. This includes demons that do not suffer damage from physical weapons
Dispel Magic |2 |MEDM |IMDT |You can interfere with the spells cast by other magic users. This spell is reactive and breaks the initiative order of combat in the round (page 15). You decrease the power level of your opponent’s spell with the power level of your Dispel. If the result is zero or less, your opponent’s spell has no effect at all. You must both roll for overcharge and mishaps, as with any other spell. You must decide how many WP you spend on your Dispel before you both roll.
Illusion |2|MEDM|STRC| You make the victim see or hear something that isn’t there, or hide something that otherwise would be seen. A small item requires a power level of 1, while an object of humanoid size requires power level 2, and an illusion the size of a house requires power level 3. Only one person is affected. The victim can see through the illusion with an Insight roll, but gets a negative modifier equal to the power level. This spell has no effect on monsters.
Ghoulish Glare |1|MEDM|IMDT|Your murky appearance instills unease and fear in your victim. They suffer stress (damage to Empathy if using attribute damage) equal to the power level. This spell can only be used against living humanoids.
Mind Trick | 2|MEDM|RUND| You can force an NPC to refrain from an action they would otherwise have performed. It must be a minor action, something you can forget by being absent-minded. An example could be that a guard lets a PC pass without confirming who they are or that someone leaves their keys on a table. The spell cannot be used in combat.


## FIRE
FIRE | RANK | DIST | SPAN | DESC
|-|-|-|-|-|
Light Bringer |1|SHRT|One STRC per Power Level| You summon a bright light that dispels all shadows within Short range, i.e., in the same zone as you.
Fire Walker | 1|SELF |SHFT|You can make yourself completely immune to heat and cold. You take no damage from fire.
Mend Wounds |2|ENGA|IMDT|You can use magic to heal broken bones and bleeding wounds. This spell immediately heals a critical injury. A lethal injury requires power level 2.
Heat of the Moment |2|SHRT|IMDT| By calling forth the element of fire in the heart of another living being, you cause your victim to be overcome by anger and rage. Make an opposed roll with a number of base dice equal to twice the power level against the Insight skill of the victim. You cannot push the roll. If you win, the victim goes berserk and must immediately attack everyone in Short range and keep fighting until they are broken, or all enemies have fled or are broken. No effect against monsters or creatures that lack Wits.
Combustion |1|SHRT|IMDT|Manipulating the element of fire, you make any non-living object suddenly burst into flame. If used against a held item, the target must drop the item or suffer one point of damage. If used against clothes or armor, the victim suffers the effects of fire with an intensity (page 24) equal to twice the power level.
Immolate | 2|SHRT|IMDT|You can heat up your victim’s blood to the point where they literally burst into flames. The spell inflicts damage equal to the power level and then sets the target on fire with an intensity (page 24) equal to twice the power level. Armor does not protect against this spell.
Hand of Doom | 2|SJRT|IMDT|You can claw your way to your victim’s heart magically and squeeze the life from them. This spell inflicts damage equal to the power level. You can extend the range to Medium if you spend an extra Willpower Point (this does not count towards the power level). This spell can only be used against living humanoids.
Blood Curse |3|Unlimited |One Shift per Power Level|You place a blood curse on your victim, who must be a living humanoid. You must know your victim’s name and know where they are, at least approximately. The victim suffers damage or stress (any attribute, if using attribute damage). The amount of damage equals the power level and the victim takes one point of damage per shift until the full effect is reached. During this time, no natural healing is possible.
Fireball |3|LONG|IMDT|You hurl a ball of fire which explodes upon hitting the target, incinerating a large area. The main target of your attack suffers damage equal to the power level. Also, everyone within Short range of the main target (in the same zone) suffers the effects of fire with an intensity (page 24) equal to twice the power level.
Blind |2|MEDM|SHFT|The victim must make an Insight roll with a negative modifier equal to the power level. If the roll fails, the symbol blinds the victim. The effect of this blindness is the same as for being in total darkness (page 24). On victims without Wits, such as animals, the effect is automatic, but the spell has no effect on monsters.

## WIND

WIND | RANK | DIST | SPAN | DESC
|-|-|-|-|-|
Far Sight |2| Varies|STRC| You can let your inner eye wander across vast distances, over oceans and land, mountains, and valleys, and see what is happening there right now. Farsight does not help you find a place – you must know where it is located to be able to see it. Power level 1 lets you view a place at Long range. Power level 2 reaches about 10 kilometers. Further away requires power level 3. Viewing a location that you haven’t been to before increases the required power level by two. Your visions are often fragmented and cryptic – the GM decides exactly what you can see.
Magical Seal | 1|ENGA|SHFT|Using this spell, you protect a person or a location (no bigger than a human) from magic. The power level of any spells cast against that person or place during the Quarter Day is decreased by the power level of the Magical Seal.
Weather Master |3|EXTR|SHFT| You are so in tune with the wind in the atmospher that you can summon a drastic weather shift in the area where you are. A minor shift, from cloudy to rain or from dead calm to a light breeze, requires power level 1. Unusual weather phenomena that still stay within what is apt for the season – a snowstorm in winter, blazing heat in the summer, or hard winds and lashing rains in the fall – require power level 2. To summon completely unnatural weather, such as a snowstorm in the summer or a heatwave in the middle of winter, requires power level 3.
Words on the Wind |1|EXTR|STRC x PowerLevel| You can enhance your hearing magically and hear specific sounds up to Extreme range as clearly as if you stood right where they emanate from. You must see the place to which you direct your hearing.
Suffocate |1|SHRT|RUND| Commanding the element of wind, you suffocate a victim by literally pulling the air out of their lungs. The target suffers one point of damage at the start of each subsequent round, for a number of rounds equal to the power level. Armor has no effect. If the victim is broken by the effect of the spell, they die after D6 rounds unless saved with a Healing roll. While under the effect of the spell, the victim cannot talk or scream.
Tornado |3|MEDM|IMDT|Forcing air into a spin, you unleash a powerful whirlwind. Your target is pummeled and suffers damage equal to the power level (blunt trauma). You can distribute the damage to several targets in the same zone. Also, everyone in the target zone must make a Force roll to stay standing. Flying creatures must make the same roll to stay in the air.
Flight |2|ENGA|RUND| Controlling the air around you, you create a small whirlwind that propels you into the air. Using the spell, you can fly for one round, moving two zones instead of one per move action. The casting of the spell doesn’t count as an action in itself. For each additional power level, you can fly for an additional round or bring another person with you.
Sense Magic |1|MEDM|IMDT| You automatically sense whenever someone uses magic within Short range or if an item you hold is charged with magical powerm but if you want to know more about what kind of magic is involved, you must cast the Sense Magic spell. Using this spell is also required to detect Obscured magic – your power level must then be equal to or higher than the power level of the Obscure Magic spell.
Cloud's Eye |1|EXTR|STRC| You can meld your mind's eye with a cloud above you. You can see the details of anything within Extreme range, everything from horizon to horizon. You see all details and can identify specific people.
Wind's Push ???? |2|SELF|IMDT| You can run with the speed of a deer for a short distance. This spell allows you to move (fast action) as an animal with a positive modifier to the Mobility roll equal to the power level. Casting this spell does not count as an action in itself. Roll for overcharge/mishap right before you actually move. ???????????????

## NATR (Nature)

NATURE | RANK | DIST | SPAN | DESC
|-|-|-|-|-|
Animal Speech |1|SHRT|STRC| This spell allows you to speak with an animal. You can ask a number of questions equal to the power level of the spell. The animal can tell you what it has seen, heard, or smelled – but they do not perceive the world as humanoids do, so their answers are often hard to interpret. The main advantage is that they never lie.
Cat's Paw |1|SELF|IMDT| You take on the likeness of a cat, and move without a sound. You can cast this spell instead of rolling Stealth, and you will succeed automatically. Each power level counts as one success.
Beastmaster |2|SHRT|STRC|You can bend animals, both wild and tame, to your will. The animal can, for example, break off an attack, track down an enemy, run to where you want it to and deliver a message, allow you to ride on it, or even attack your opponents. You cannot control an animal with a Strength higher than twice the power level. The power level must be one step higher if the animal is agitated, scared or in combat. If you force an animal to act in a way that is outside its normal behavior – like make it perform tricks, for example – the power level needs to be one step higher. You can only control one animal at a time. This spell cannot be used against monsters.
Animal Form |3|SELF|IMDT|You can shapeshift completely, and take the form of an animal. You cannot choose an animal with a Strength higher than twice the power level. You get the Strength and Agility of the animal while you are in animal form. The downside is that you lose your ability to speak and a part of your mental capacity, with the consequence that your Wits and Empathy drop to 1 each while in animal form. You also get access to the animal’s natural attacks. Shifting back to your normal form requires that you cast the spell again.
Primal Soul |3|LONG|STRC| You can awaken primal emotions in the minds of others. The power level must be equal to or higher than the victim’s current Wits score. For example, you can bring out the rage of a boar, the laziness of a cat or the timidity of a sparrow. Exactly how the victim reacts is up to the GM. If you want to affect the mood of a crowd in a more general way, a small crowd requires a power level of 2, a big crowd requires 3, and a whole village 4.
Bind Magic |3|SELF|VARIES|Skilled sorcerers and druids can Bind spells to dead objects to create magical traps or powerful magical artifacts. You cast the spell like any other and choose how many Willpower Points to spend, but you must also spend extra WP to bind your spell to an object instead of unleashing its power immediately. Rituals cannot be Bound. Roll for any overcharge and mishap when the spell is Bound. The extra WP do affect this roll, but don’t count toward the Power Level. If you spend one additional WP, the magic lingers for one day, or until the spell is triggered. If you spend two additional WP, the magic lingers forever, but dissipates when the spell is triggered. Spending five additional WP binds the spell to the object forever and it can be triggered once per day, at a cost in WP equal to the Power Level. You can bind the spell in whatever manner you wish. You decide how the spell is triggered. Common methods include a certain phrase being uttered or that the object is opened, broken or thrown to the ground. Once the spell is triggered, it has the same effect as if it had been cast normally.
Contaminate | 1|ENGA|IMDT| You can create horrid contagions with which to torment your enemies. Your victim, who must be a living humanoid, contracts a disease with a virulence equal to the power level multiplied by 3 in the dice pool system
Pheromones Spores| 1| SHRT| STRC|Using this spell, your victim is overcome with strong emotions such as lust, fear or confusion. The victim must give in to these emotions in some way – exactly how depends on the individual and the situation. The GM determines the details. The spell has no effect in combat and cannot be used against monsters.
Nature's Cure |1|ENGA|IMDT|You heal a sickness or cure the effects of poison in yourself or someone else. The power level of your spell must be equal to or higher than the virulence or toxicity rating (page 25) divided by 3 (rounded down).
Steal Life |3|SHRT|IMDT|You can suck the life from living plants and animals around you. You gain a number of Willpower Points equal to twice the power level. The ritual can only be used in an environment where there is vegetation and so cannot be used indoors or on a rocky mountain side. When you perform the ritual, all people, animals and plants within Short range – in the same zone as you – die.

## WATR (Water)
WATER | RANK | DIST | SPAN | DESC
|-|-|-|-|-|
Water Breathing | 1|ENGA |STRC| You grant yourself or a creature you touch the ability to breath water as if it was air, eliminating the danger of drowning. Each power level increases the number of creatures you can affect by one or increases the duration by one stretch. These extra effects can be combined.
Blood Bond |2|ENGA|IMDT|You can transfer blood, and the inherent energy of it, to or from another being of the same kind as yourself. You can transfer a number of Health or Resolve points (or attribute points, if using the dice pool system) equal to the power level to or from the target. The starting score cannot be surpassed. Points lost in this way can be recovered normally. An unwilling victim can make an Insight roll, with a negative modifier equal to the power level, to resist the spell. The spell can be used to get a broken person up on their feet, but it has no effect on critical injuries.
Blood Channeling |3|SELF|RUND|This spell concentrates the energy of the sorcerer’s own blood. You gain a number of Willpower Points equal to twice the power level. The effect is temporary, however. Your newly won Willpower Points must be used in the next round, or they are lost.
Healing Hands |1|ENGA|IMDT| You can heal an amount of Health (Strength or Agility, if the game uses attribute damage) by laying your hands on the wounded. You immediately heal a number of points equal to the power level. This spell does not affect critical injuries. You cannot heal yourself.
Parch |2|ENGA|IMDT| Controlling the element of water, you draw the fluids out of a living victim. They immediately suffer damage (to Agility, if using the attribute damage) equal to the power level. Armor has no effect.
Flood Wave |3|MEDM|IMDT| Forcing any nearby source of water or snow to do your bidding, you unleash a flood wave or small avalanche against your victims. The targets suffer a total amount of damage equal to the power level – you can distribute the damage as you see fit. All victims who take damage are thrown to the ground.
Blood Puppet |3|SHRT|RUND|You can take complete control of your victim’s actions. The victim must make an STAM roll with a negative modifier equal to the power level. If the roll fails, the victim becomes a puppet without control of their own body. This control only lasts until the victim’s next ordinary turn, and covers one fast and one slow action. The victim cannot perform reactive actions or bonus actions from talents before the Puppeteer’s actions are performed. The spell has no effect on monsters.
Befoul |1|SHRT|IMDT|You can let toxic concoctions seep into food. You can Befoul a ration of food per power level making it unfit for consumption. The food turns into a poison with a toxicity equal to the lower level multiplied by 3
Transfer Will  |3|ENGA|IMDT| You can use this spell to steal Willpower Points from others or to give your WP to someone else. The base cost to cast the spell is one WP, and you can then take or give as many WP as you want. If your target opposes the spell, it is not so easy – in this case, you can Transfer no more WP than the power level of the spell. The WP used to cast Transfer are spent and are not transferred.
Cleanse Spirit  |1|ENGA|IMDT|You can focus the forces of clean water to purify dark souls. You immediately heal an amount of Resolve (Wits or Empathy, if the game uses attribute damage) equal to the power level. You cannot heal yourself.

## ERTH (Earth)
EARTH | RANK | DIST | SPAN | DESC
|-|-|-|-|-|
Sunder |1|ENGA|IMDT| Breaking the invisible bonds holding physical matter together, you split apart any object. Using this spell, you can break any non-living and non-magical object. For each power level, the item loses one point of gear bonus (page 11) or suffers ten points of damage. Armor has no effect.
Rock Storm |2|MEDM|IMDT| Manipulating the element of Earth, you hurl stones and rocks at an enemy in combat. The damage from your attack is equal to the power level. Armor works normally
StoneSkin |3|SELF|STRC|Manipulating the element of Earth, you cover your body with a layer of living stone, protecting you against damage. You receive an armor rating equal to twice the power level.
Mud Ball |1|MEDM|IMDT|You throw a Mud Ball at your opponent slowing them down. At power level 1, the victim loses their fast action in the round, or in the next round if they have already used it. At power level 2, they lose their slow action. At power level 3, they lose both actions, and at power level 4, they also lose any bonus actions from talents. The spell has no effect on monsters.
Land Slide|2|ENGA|IMDT| You terraform the land around you launching yourself into your enemy with the force of a mountain. You hit automatically and cause damage equal to the power level. The attack cannot be parried or dodged, but armor has normal effect.
Power Rune |3| ENGA|IMDT|You can charge a carved stone slate with a power level equal to a number of WILL assigned. You can use the slate later to cast spells, emptying its stored WILL. Others skilled in MAGC can access them, so keep them to yourself!
Gravity Portal |3|SHRT|DAYS x PowerLevel| This powerful ritual tears a hole in the ground beneath you and opens a Gravitational Portal underground to a previously set Power Rune. This is a very risky undertaking, since you run the risk of running into all sorts of creatures on the other side – perhaps you can use them for your own purposes, but it is just as likely others could attempt to use it for themselves. The details are up to the GM.
Obscure Magic |2|SELF|IMDT| If you want to cast a spell unnoticed, you must Obscure your magic. This requires one extra Willpower Point that does not count toward the power level of the spell. Obscuring magic does not count as an action in itself. To detect your Obscured spell, another magic user must actively survey the area by casting Sense Magic.
Clay Soul |3|ENGA|VARIES| Through this ritual, you can extract a victim’s soul from their body and capture it in a clay vessel. Your victim must make an Insight roll with a negative modification equal to the power level. If the roll fails, the victim is bound to the vessel for a shift. Making the effect last one full day requires power level 2 or higher, and if you want the victim to remain in the vessel forever – or up to a time of your choosing – it requires power level 3. You can specify a condition that must be filled to free the soul. The victim can be freed by a Dispel Magic (page 31). While the soul is bound, the body is unconscious and can be killed or possessed by another restless spirit.
Call from the Grave |1|ENGA|RUND x PowerLevel| You let the inevitable call of death seep into your victim. The victim becomes cold (page 25), immediately suffering one point of damage and one point of stress (damage to Strength and Wits) as a result. The victim continues to suffer one point of damage and stress each round, until the total amount of damage and stress each equal the power level. The spell has no effect on monsters.

## MAGC MSTK (Magic Mistakes)

|D12 |Magic Mistake|
|-|-|
1 |The magic makes you unable to sleep for D6 days.
2 |Your spell drains your energy, inflicting one point of stress.
3 |Your magic hurts your body and you suffer one point of damage.
4 |The spell triggers a magical disease with a virulence of 2D6. You and everyone within Engaged range of you for the next shift are exposed to the contagion.
5 |The spell also affects a friend or other unintended victim. A healing or helping spell affects an enemy alongside the intended target.
6 |Your magic permanently alters your appearance. The GM decides how.
7 |The spell blinds you. You act as in total darkness for the next full day.
8 |The spell ravages your mind. Immediately roll for a mental critical injury.
9 |The force of the magic breaks bones in your body. Immediately roll for a physical critical injury.
10 |Your magic attracts a demon from another dimension. The demon appears within the next shift and will create all kinds of trouble.
11 |The spell backfires. An offensive spell affects you instead of your intended target. A protective or healing spell wounds instead of healing. A shapeshift goes horribly wrong and you become a dumb animal. A summoned undead, demon, or illusion turns against you. The GM specifies the details.
12 |Your magic rips open a rift to another dimension, and a demon pulls you over to the other side. Time to make a new character. Your oldcharacter will come back as an NPC after D66 days but will be… changed.
